{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 Collection Configs\par
A Collection is a group of records, called Documents, that all share a common schema. You can define as many Collections as your application needs. Each Document in a Collection is stored in the Database based on the Fields that you define, and automatically generates a Local API, REST API, and GraphQL API used to manage your Documents.\par
\par
Collections are also used to achieve Authentication in Payload. By defining a Collection with auth options, that Collection receives additional operations to support user authentication.\par
\par
Collections are the primary way to structure recurring data in your application, such as users, products, pages, posts, and other types of content that you might want to manage. Each Collection can have its own unique Access Control, Hooks, Admin Options, and more.\par
\par
To define a Collection Config, use the collections property in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  collections: [\par
    \par
    // Your Collections go here\par
  ],\par
\})\par
Tip: If your Collection is only ever meant to contain a single Document, consider using a Global instead.\par
\par
Config Options\par
It's often best practice to write your Collections in separate files and then import them into the main Payload Config.\par
\par
Here is what a simple Collection Config might look like:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  slug: 'posts',\par
  fields: [\par
    \{\par
      name: 'title',\par
      type: 'text',\par
    \},\par
  ],\par
\}\par
Reminder: For more complex examples, see the Templates and Examples directories in the Payload repository.\par
\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
admin\par
\par
The configuration options for the Admin Panel. More details.\par
\par
access\par
\par
Provide Access Control functions to define exactly who should be able to do what with Documents in this Collection. More details.\par
\par
auth\par
\par
Specify options if you would like this Collection to feature authentication. More details.\par
\par
custom\par
\par
Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)\par
\par
disableDuplicate\par
\par
When true, do not show the "Duplicate" button while editing documents within this Collection and prevent duplicate from all APIs.\par
\par
defaultSort\par
\par
Pass a top-level field to sort by default in the Collection List View. Prefix the name of the field with a minus symbol ("-") to sort in descending order. Multiple fields can be specified by using a string array.\par
\par
dbName\par
\par
Custom table or Collection name depending on the Database Adapter. Auto-generated from slug if not defined.\par
\par
endpoints\par
\par
Add custom routes to the REST API. Set to false to disable routes. More details.\par
\par
fields *\par
\par
Array of field types that will determine the structure and functionality of the data stored within this Collection. More details.\par
\par
graphQL\par
\par
Manage GraphQL-related properties for this collection. More\par
\par
hooks\par
\par
Entry point for Hooks. More details.\par
\par
orderable\par
\par
If true, enables custom ordering for the collection, and documents can be reordered via drag and drop. Uses orderable for efficient reordering.\par
\par
labels\par
\par
Singular and plural labels for use in identifying this Collection throughout Payload. Auto-generated from slug if not defined.\par
\par
enableQueryPresets\par
\par
Enable query presets for this Collection. More details.\par
\par
lockDocuments\par
\par
Enables or disables document locking. By default, document locking is enabled. Set to an object to configure, or set to false to disable locking. More details.\par
\par
slug *\par
\par
Unique, URL-friendly string that will act as an identifier for this Collection.\par
\par
timestamps\par
\par
Set to false to disable documents' automatically generated createdAt and updatedAt timestamps.\par
\par
trash\par
\par
A boolean to enable soft deletes for this collection. Defaults to false. More details.\par
\par
typescript\par
\par
An object with property interface as the text used in schema generation. Auto-generated from slug if not defined.\par
\par
upload\par
\par
Specify options if you would like this Collection to support file uploads. For more, consult the Uploads documentation.\par
\par
versions\par
\par
Set to true to enable default options, or configure with object properties. More details.\par
\par
defaultPopulate\par
\par
Specify which fields to select when this Collection is populated from another document. More Details.\par
\par
indexes\par
\par
Define compound indexes for this collection. This can be used to either speed up querying/sorting by 2 or more fields at the same time or to ensure uniqueness between several fields.\par
\par
forceSelect\par
\par
Specify which fields should be selected always, regardless of the select query which can be useful that the field exists for access control / hooks. More details.\par
\par
disableBulkEdit\par
\par
Disable the bulk edit operation for the collection in the admin panel and the REST API\par
\par
* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.\par
\par
Fields\par
Fields define the schema of the Documents within a Collection. To learn more, go to the Fields documentation.\par
\par
Access Control\par
Collection Access Control determines what a user can and cannot do with any given Document within a Collection. To learn more, go to the Access Control documentation.\par
\par
Hooks\par
Collection Hooks allow you to tie into the lifecycle of your Documents so you can execute your own logic during specific events. To learn more, go to the Hooks documentation.\par
\par
Orderable\par
When orderable is enabled, Payload uses fractional indexing to efficiently manage document order. When enabled on collections, this allows you to manually drag and drop documents in the Admin Panel to reorder them, as well as programmatically set the order of documents via the Local API, REST API, or GraphQL API.\par
\par
Orderable can also be added to joins fields.\par
\par
Fractional indexing\par
If you need to generate order keys programmatically (e.g., when creating documents via the Local API with a specific order), you can import the utilities directly:\par
\par
import \{ generateKeyBetween, generateNKeysBetween \} from 'payload/shared'\par
\par
// Generate a key between two existing keys (or null for start/end)\par
const newKey = generateKeyBetween('a0', 'a1')\par
\par
// Generate a key at the start (before 'a0')\par
const startKey = generateKeyBetween(null, 'a0')\par
\par
// Generate a key at the end (after 'a1')\par
const endKey = generateKeyBetween('a1', null)\par
\par
// Generate multiple keys between two existing keys\par
const keys = generateNKeysBetween('a0', 'a1', 5)\par
These utilities are useful when you need fine-grained control over document ordering, such as inserting documents at specific positions or batch-creating documents with predetermined order.\par
\par
Admin Options\par
The behavior of Collections within the Admin Panel can be fully customized to fit the needs of your application. This includes grouping or hiding their navigation links, adding Custom Components, selecting which fields to display in the List View, and more.\par
\par
To configure Admin Options for Collections, use the admin property in your Collection Config:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const MyCollection: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    \par
    // ...\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
group\par
\par
Text or localization object used to group Collection and Global links in the admin navigation. Set to false to hide the link from the navigation while keeping its routes accessible.\par
\par
hidden\par
\par
Set to true or a function, called with the current user, returning true to exclude this Collection from navigation and admin routing.\par
\par
useAsTitle\par
\par
Specify a top-level field to use for a document title throughout the Admin Panel. If no field is defined, the ID of the document is used as the title.\par
\par
description\par
\par
Text to display below the Collection label in the List View to give editors more information. Alternatively, you can use the admin.components.Description to render a React component. More details.\par
\par
defaultColumns\par
\par
Array of field names that correspond to which columns to show by default in this Collection's List View.\par
\par
disableCopyToLocale\par
\par
Disables the "Copy to Locale" button while editing documents within this Collection. Only applicable when localization is enabled.\par
\par
groupBy\par
\par
Beta. Enable grouping by a field in the list view.\par
\par
hideAPIURL\par
\par
Hides the "API URL" meta field while editing documents within this Collection.\par
\par
enableRichTextLink\par
\par
The Rich Text field features a Link element which allows for users to automatically reference related documents within their rich text. Set to true by default.\par
\par
enableRichTextRelationship\par
\par
The Rich Text field features a Relationship element which allows for users to automatically reference related documents within their rich text. Set to true by default.\par
\par
folders\par
\par
A boolean to enable folders for a given collection. Defaults to false. More details.\par
\par
formatDocURL\par
\par
Function to customize document links in the List View. Return null to disable linking, or a string for custom URLs. More details.\par
\par
meta\par
\par
Page metadata overrides to apply to this Collection within the Admin Panel. More details.\par
\par
preview\par
\par
Function to generate preview URLs within the Admin Panel that can point to your app. More details.\par
\par
livePreview\par
\par
Enable real-time editing for instant visual feedback of your front-end application. More details.\par
\par
components\par
\par
Swap in your own React components to be used within this Collection. More details.\par
\par
listSearchableFields\par
\par
Specify which fields should be searched in the List search view. More details.\par
\par
enableListViewSelectAPI\par
\par
Performance opt-in. When true, uses the Select API in the List View to query only the active columns as opposed to entire documents. More details.\par
\par
pagination\par
\par
Set pagination-specific options for this Collection in the List View. More details.\par
\par
baseFilter\par
\par
Defines a default base filter which will be applied to the List View (along with any other filters applied by the user) and internal links in Lexical Editor,\par
\par
Note: If you set useAsTitle to a relationship or join field, it will use only the ID of the related document(s) as the title. To display a specific field (i.e. title) from the related document instead, create a virtual field that extracts the desired data, and set useAsTitle to that virtual field.\par
\par
Custom Components\par
Collections can set their own Custom Components which only apply to Collection-specific UI within the Admin Panel. This includes elements such as the Save Button, or entire layouts such as the Edit View.\par
\par
To override Collection Components, use the admin.components property in your Collection Config:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const MyCollection: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    components: \{\par
      \par
      // ...\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
afterList\par
\par
An array of components to inject after the built-in List View. More details.\par
\par
afterListTable\par
\par
An array of components to inject after the built-in List View's table. More details.\par
\par
beforeList\par
\par
An array of components to inject before the built-in List View. More details.\par
\par
beforeListTable\par
\par
An array of components to inject before the built-in List View's table. More details.\par
\par
listMenuItems\par
\par
An array of components to render within a menu next to the List Controls (after the Columns and Filters options)\par
\par
Description\par
\par
A component to render below the Collection label in the List View. An alternative to the admin.description property. More details.\par
\par
edit\par
\par
Override specific components within the Edit View. More details.\par
\par
views\par
\par
Override or create new views within the Admin Panel. More details.\par
\par
Edit View Options\par
Custom components within the Edit View are configured under admin.components.edit:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const MyCollection: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    components: \{\par
      edit: \{\par
        Status: '/path/to/CustomStatus',\par
        SaveButton: '/path/to/CustomSaveButton',\par
        PublishButton: '/path/to/CustomPublishButton',\par
      \},\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following components can be customized within admin.components.edit:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
beforeDocumentControls\par
\par
Inject custom components before the Save / Publish buttons. More details.\par
\par
editMenuItems\par
\par
Inject custom components within the 3-dot menu dropdown located in the document controls bar. More details.\par
\par
SaveButton\par
\par
Replace the default Save Button within the Edit View. Drafts must be disabled. More details.\par
\par
SaveDraftButton\par
\par
Replace the default Save Draft Button within the Edit View. Drafts must be enabled and autosave must be disabled. More details.\par
\par
Status\par
\par
Replace the default Status component within the Edit View. Drafts must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
PublishButton\par
\par
Replace the default Publish Button within the Edit View. Drafts must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
UnpublishButton\par
\par
Replace the default Unpublish Button within the Edit View. Drafts must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
PreviewButton\par
\par
Replace the default Preview Button within the Edit View. Preview must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
Upload\par
\par
Replace the default Upload component within the Edit View. Upload must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
Important: All edit view components must be configured under admin.components.edit, not directly under admin.components.\par
\par
For example, use admin.components.edit.Status, not admin.components.Status.\par
\par
Note: For details on how to build Custom Components, see Building Custom Components.\par
\par
Pagination\par
All Collections receive their own List View which displays a paginated list of documents that can be sorted and filtered. The pagination behavior of the List View can be customized on a per-Collection basis, and uses the same Pagination API that Payload provides.\par
\par
To configure pagination options, use the admin.pagination property in your Collection Config:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    pagination: \{\par
      defaultLimit: 10,\par
      limits: [10, 20, 50],\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
defaultLimit\par
\par
Integer that specifies the default per-page limit that should be used. Defaults to 10.\par
\par
limits\par
\par
Provide an array of integers to use as per-page options for admins to choose from in the List View.\par
\par
List Searchable Fields\par
In the List View, there is a "search" box that allows you to quickly find a document through a simple text search. By default, it searches on the ID field. If defined, the admin.useAsTitle field is used. Or, you can explicitly define which fields to search based on the needs of your application.\par
\par
To define which fields should be searched, use the admin.listSearchableFields property in your Collection Config:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    listSearchableFields: ['title', 'slug'],\par
  \},\par
\}\par
Tip: If you are adding listSearchableFields, make sure you index each of these fields so your admin queries can remain performant.\par
\par
Enable List View Select API\par
When true, the List View will use the Select API to query only the active columns as opposed to entire documents. This can greatly improve performance, especially for collections with large documents or many fields.\par
\par
To enable this, set enableListViewSelectAPI: true in your Collection Config:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    // ...\par
    enableListViewSelectAPI: true,\par
  \},\par
\}\par
Note: The enableListViewSelectAPI property is labeled as experimental, as it will likely become the default behavior in v4 and be deprecated.\par
\par
Enabling this feature may cause unexpected behavior in some cases, however, such as when using hooks that rely on the full document data.\par
\par
For example, if your component relies on a "title" field, this field will no longer be populated if the column is inactive:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  fields: [\par
    // ...\par
    \{\par
      name: 'myField',\par
      type: 'text',\par
      hooks: \{\par
        afterRead: [\par
          (\{ doc \}) => doc.title, // The `title` field will no longer be populated by default, unless the column is active\par
        ],\par
      \},\par
    \},\par
  ],\par
\}\par
To ensure title is always present, you will need to add that field to the forceSelect property in your Collection Config:\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  forceSelect: \{\par
    title: true,\par
  \},\par
\}\par
Format Document URLs\par
The formatDocURL function allows you to customize how document links are generated in the List View. This is useful for disabling links for certain documents, redirecting to custom destinations, or modifying URLs based on user context or document state.\par
\par
To define a custom document URL formatter, use the admin.formatDocURL property in your Collection Config:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    formatDocURL: (\{ doc, defaultURL, req, collectionSlug, viewType \}) => \{\par
      // Disable linking for documents with specific status\par
      if (doc.status === 'private') \{\par
        return null\par
      \}\par
\par
      // Custom destination for featured posts\par
      if (doc.featured) \{\par
        return '/admin/featured-posts'\par
      \}\par
\par
      // Add query parameters based on user role\par
      if (req.user?.role === 'admin') \{\par
        return defaultURL + '?admin=true'\par
      \}\par
\par
      // Use default URL for all other cases\par
      return defaultURL\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The formatDocURL function receives the following arguments:\par
\par
Argument\par
\par
Description\par
\par
doc\par
\par
The document data for the current row\par
\par
defaultURL\par
\par
The default URL that Payload would normally generate for this document. You can return this as-is, modify it, or replace it entirely.\par
\par
req\par
\par
The full PayloadRequest object, providing access to user context, payload instance, and other request data\par
\par
collectionSlug\par
\par
The slug of the current collection\par
\par
viewType\par
\par
The current view context ('list', 'trash', etc.) where the link is being generated\par
\par
The function should return:\par
\par
null to disable the link entirely (no link will be rendered)\par
A string containing the custom URL to use for the link\par
The defaultURL parameter to use Payload's default linking behavior\par
Tip: The defaultURL parameter saves you from having to reconstruct URLs manually. You can modify it by appending query parameters or use it as a fallback for your custom logic.\par
\par
Examples\par
Disable linking for certain users:\par
\par
formatDocURL: (\{ defaultURL, req \}) => \{\par
  if (req.user?.role === 'editor') \{\par
    return null // No link rendered\par
  \}\par
  return defaultURL\par
\}\par
GraphQL\par
You can completely disable GraphQL for this collection by passing graphQL: false to your collection config. This will completely disable all queries, mutations, and types from appearing in your GraphQL schema.\par
\par
You can also pass an object to the collection's graphQL property, which allows you to define the following properties:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
singularName\par
\par
Override the "singular" name that will be used in GraphQL schema generation.\par
\par
pluralName\par
\par
Override the "plural" name that will be used in GraphQL schema generation.\par
\par
disableQueries\par
\par
Disable all GraphQL queries that correspond to this collection by passing true.\par
\par
disableMutations\par
\par
Disable all GraphQL mutations that correspond to this collection by passing true.\par
\par
TypeScript\par
You can import types from Payload to help make writing your Collection configs easier and type-safe. There are two main types that represent the Collection Config, CollectionConfig and SanitizedCollectionConfig.\par
\par
The CollectionConfig type represents a raw Collection Config in its full form, where only the bare minimum properties are marked as required. The SanitizedCollectionConfig type represents a Collection Config after it has been fully sanitized. Generally, this is only used internally by Payload.\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig, SanitizedCollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
}
 