{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 Global Configs\par
Globals are in many ways similar to Collections, except that they correspond to only a single Document. You can define as many Globals as your application needs. Each Global Document is stored in the Database based on the Fields that you define, and automatically generates a Local API, REST API, and GraphQL API used to manage your Documents.\par
\par
Globals are the primary way to structure singletons in Payload, such as a header navigation, site-wide banner alerts, or app-wide localized strings. Each Global can have its own unique Access Control, Hooks, Admin Options, and more.\par
\par
To define a Global Config, use the globals property in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  globals: [\par
    \par
    // Your Globals go here\par
  ],\par
\})\par
Tip: If you have more than one Global that share the same structure, consider using a Collection instead.\par
\par
Config Options\par
It's often best practice to write your Globals in separate files and then import them into the main Payload Config.\par
\par
Here is what a simple Global Config might look like:\par
\par
import type \{ GlobalConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Nav: GlobalConfig = \{\par
  slug: 'nav',\par
  fields: [\par
    \{\par
      name: 'items',\par
      type: 'array',\par
      required: true,\par
      maxRows: 8,\par
      fields: [\par
        \{\par
          name: 'page',\par
          type: 'relationship',\par
          relationTo: 'pages', // "pages" is the slug of an existing collection\par
          required: true,\par
        \},\par
      ],\par
    \},\par
  ],\par
\}\par
Reminder: For more complex examples, see the Templates and Examples directories in the Payload repository.\par
\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
access\par
\par
Provide Access Control functions to define exactly who should be able to do what with this Global. More details.\par
\par
admin\par
\par
The configuration options for the Admin Panel. More details.\par
\par
custom\par
\par
Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)\par
\par
dbName\par
\par
Custom table or collection name for this Global depending on the Database Adapter. Auto-generated from slug if not defined.\par
\par
description\par
\par
Text or React component to display below the Global header to give editors more information.\par
\par
endpoints\par
\par
Add custom routes to the REST API. More details.\par
\par
fields *\par
\par
Array of field types that will determine the structure and functionality of the data stored within this Global. More details.\par
\par
graphQL\par
\par
Manage GraphQL-related properties related to this global. More details\par
\par
hooks\par
\par
Entry point for Hooks. More details.\par
\par
label\par
\par
Text for the name in the Admin Panel or an object with keys for each language. Auto-generated from slug if not defined.\par
\par
lockDocuments\par
\par
Enables or disables document locking. By default, document locking is enabled. Set to an object to configure, or set to false to disable locking. More details.\par
\par
slug *\par
\par
Unique, URL-friendly string that will act as an identifier for this Global.\par
\par
typescript\par
\par
An object with property interface as the text used in schema generation. Auto-generated from slug if not defined.\par
\par
versions\par
\par
Set to true to enable default options, or configure with object properties. More details.\par
\par
forceSelect\par
\par
Specify which fields should be selected always, regardless of the select query which can be useful that the field exists for access control / hooks. More details.\par
\par
* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.\par
\par
Fields\par
Fields define the schema of the Global. To learn more, go to the Fields documentation.\par
\par
Access Control\par
Global Access Control determines what a user can and cannot do with any given Global Document. To learn more, go to the Access Control documentation.\par
\par
Hooks\par
Global Hooks allow you to tie into the lifecycle of your Documents so you can execute your own logic during specific events. To learn more, go to the Hooks documentation.\par
\par
Admin Options\par
The behavior of Globals within the Admin Panel can be fully customized to fit the needs of your application. This includes grouping or hiding their navigation links, adding Custom Components, setting page metadata, and more.\par
\par
To configure Admin Options for Globals, use the admin property in your Global Config:\par
\par
import type \{ GlobalConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const MyGlobal: GlobalConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    \par
    // ...\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
group\par
\par
Text or localization object used to group Collection and Global links in the admin navigation. Set to false to hide the link from the navigation while keeping its routes accessible.\par
\par
hidden\par
\par
Set to true or a function, called with the current user, returning true to exclude this Global from navigation and admin routing.\par
\par
components\par
\par
Swap in your own React components to be used within this Global. More details.\par
\par
preview\par
\par
Function to generate a preview URL within the Admin Panel for this Global that can point to your app. More details.\par
\par
livePreview\par
\par
Enable real-time editing for instant visual feedback of your front-end application. More details.\par
\par
hideAPIURL\par
\par
Hides the "API URL" meta field while editing documents within this collection.\par
\par
meta\par
\par
Page metadata overrides to apply to this Global within the Admin Panel. More details.\par
\par
Custom Components\par
Globals can set their own Custom Components which only apply to Global-specific UI within the Admin Panel. This includes elements such as the Save Button, or entire layouts such as the Edit View.\par
\par
To override Global Components, use the admin.components property in your Global Config:\par
\par
import type \{ SanitizedGlobalConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const MyGlobal: SanitizedGlobalConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    components: \{\par
      \par
      // ...\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
General\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
elements\par
\par
Override or create new elements within the Edit View. More details.\par
\par
views\par
\par
Override or create new views within the Admin Panel. More details.\par
\par
Edit View Options\par
Custom components within the Edit View are configured under admin.components.elements:\par
\par
import type \{ GlobalConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const MyGlobal: GlobalConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  admin: \{\par
    components: \{\par
      elements: \{\par
        Status: '/path/to/CustomStatus',\par
        SaveButton: '/path/to/CustomSaveButton',\par
        PublishButton: '/path/to/CustomPublishButton',\par
      \},\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
The following elements can be customized within admin.components.elements:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
beforeDocumentControls\par
\par
Inject custom components before the Save button. More details.\par
\par
Description\par
\par
A component to render below the Global label in the Edit View. More details.\par
\par
SaveButton\par
\par
Replace the default Save Button with a Custom Component. Drafts must be disabled. More details.\par
\par
SaveDraftButton\par
\par
Replace the default Save Draft Button with a Custom Component. Drafts must be enabled and autosave must be disabled. More details.\par
\par
PublishButton\par
\par
Replace the default Publish Button with a Custom Component. Drafts must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
UnpublishButton\par
\par
Replace the default Unpublish Button with a Custom Component. Drafts must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
PreviewButton\par
\par
Replace the default Preview Button with a Custom Component. Preview must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
Status\par
\par
Replace the default Status component with a Custom Component. Drafts must be enabled. More details.\par
\par
Note: For details on how to build Custom Components, see Building Custom Components.\par
\par
GraphQL\par
You can completely disable GraphQL for this global by passing graphQL: false to your global config. This will completely disable all queries, mutations, and types from appearing in your GraphQL schema.\par
\par
You can also pass an object to the global's graphQL property, which allows you to define the following properties:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
name\par
\par
Override the name that will be used in GraphQL schema generation.\par
\par
disableQueries\par
\par
Disable all GraphQL queries that correspond to this global by passing true.\par
\par
disableMutations\par
\par
Disable all GraphQL mutations that correspond to this global by passing true.\par
\par
TypeScript\par
You can import types from Payload to help make writing your Global configs easier and type-safe. There are two main types that represent the Global Config, GlobalConfig and SanitizedGlobalConfig.\par
\par
The GlobalConfig type represents a raw Global Config in its full form, where only the bare minimum properties are marked as required. The SanitizedGlobalConfig type represents a Global Config after it has been fully sanitized. Generally, this is only used internally by Payload.\par
\par
import type \{ GlobalConfig, SanitizedGlobalConfig \} from 'payload'\par
Next\par
}
 