{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 I18n\par
The Admin Panel is translated in over 30 languages and counting. With I18n, editors can navigate the interface and read API error messages in their preferred language. This is similar to Localization, but instead of managing translations for the data itself, you are managing translations for your application's interface.\par
\par
By default, Payload comes preinstalled with English, but you can easily load other languages into your own application. Languages are automatically detected based on the request. If no language is detected, or if the user's language is not yet supported by your application, English will be chosen.\par
\par
To add I18n to your project, you first need to install the @payloadcms/translations package:\par
\par
pnpm install @payloadcms/translations\par
Once installed, it can be configured using the i18n key in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  i18n: \{\par
    \par
    // ...\par
  \},\par
\})\par
Note: If there is a language that Payload does not yet support, we accept code contributions.\par
\par
Config Options\par
You can easily customize and override any of the i18n settings that Payload provides by default. Payload will use your custom options and merge them in with its own.\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  i18n: \{\par
    fallbackLanguage: 'en', // default\par
  \},\par
\})\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
fallbackLanguage\par
\par
The language to fall back to if the user's preferred language is not supported. Default is 'en'.\par
\par
translations\par
\par
An object containing the translations. The keys are the language codes and the values are the translations.\par
\par
supportedLanguages\par
\par
An object containing the supported languages. The keys are the language codes and the values are the translations.\par
\par
Adding Languages\par
You can easily add new languages to your Payload app by providing the translations for the new language. Payload maintains a number of built-in translations that can be imported from @payloadcms/translations, but you can also provide your own Custom Translations to support any language.\par
\par
To add a new language, use the i18n.supportedLanguages key in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
import \{ en \} from '@payloadcms/translations/languages/en'\par
import \{ de \} from '@payloadcms/translations/languages/de'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  i18n: \{\par
    supportedLanguages: \{ en, de \},\par
  \},\par
\})\par
Tip: It's best to only support the languages that you need so that the bundled JavaScript is kept to a minimum for your project.\par
\par
Custom Translations\par
You can customize Payload's built-in translations either by extending existing languages or by adding new languages entirely. This can be done by injecting new translation strings into existing languages, or by providing an entirely new language keys altogether.\par
\par
To add Custom Translations, use the i18n.translations key in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  //...\par
  i18n: \{\par
    translations: \{\par
      en: \{\par
        custom: \{\par
          // namespace can be anything you want\par
          key1: 'Translation with \{\{variable\}\}', // translation\par
        \},\par
        // override existing translation keys\par
        general: \{\par
          dashboard: 'Home',\par
        \},\par
      \},\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
  //...\par
\})\par
Project Translations\par
While Payload's built-in features come fully translated, you may also want to translate parts of your own project. This is possible in places like Collections and Globals, such as on their labels and groups, field labels, descriptions or input placeholder text.\par
\par
To do this, provide the translations wherever applicable, keyed to the language code:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Articles: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  slug: 'articles',\par
  labels: \{\par
    singular: \{\par
      en: 'Article',\par
      es: 'Art\'edculo',\par
    \},\par
    plural: \{\par
      en: 'Articles',\par
      es: 'Art\'edculos',\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
  admin: \{\par
    group: \{\par
      en: 'Content',\par
      es: 'Contenido',\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
  fields: [\par
    \{\par
      name: 'title',\par
      type: 'text',\par
      label: \{\par
        en: 'Title',\par
        es: 'T\'edtulo',\par
      \},\par
      admin: \{\par
        placeholder: \{\par
          en: 'Enter title',\par
          es: 'Introduce el t\'edtulo',\par
        \},\par
      \},\par
    \},\par
  ],\par
\}\par
Changing Languages\par
Users can change their preferred language in their account settings or by otherwise manipulating their User Preferences.\par
\par
Node.js\par
Payload's backend sets the language on incoming requests before they are handled. This allows backend validation to return error messages in the user's own language or system generated emails to be sent using the correct translation. You can make HTTP requests with the accept-language header and Payload will use that language.\par
\par
Anywhere in your Payload app that you have access to the req object, you can access Payload's extensive internationalization features assigned to req.i18n. To access text translations you can use req.t('namespace:key').\par
\par
TypeScript\par
In order to use Custom Translations in your project, you need to provide the types for the translations.\par
\par
Here we create a shareable translations object. We will import this in both our custom components and in our Payload config.\par
\par
In this example we show how to extend English, but you can do the same for any language you want.\par
\par
// <rootDir>/custom-translations.ts\par
\par
import \{ enTranslations \} from '@payloadcms/translations/languages/en'\par
import type \{ NestedKeysStripped \} from '@payloadcms/translations'\par
\par
export const customTranslations = \{\par
  en: \{\par
    general: \{\par
      myCustomKey: 'My custom english translation',\par
    \},\par
    fields: \{\par
      addLabel: 'Add!',\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
\par
export type CustomTranslationsObject = typeof customTranslations.en &\par
  typeof enTranslations\par
export type CustomTranslationsKeys =\par
  NestedKeysStripped<CustomTranslationsObject>\par
Import the shared translations object into our Payload config so they are available for use:\par
\par
// <rootDir>/payload.config.ts\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
import \{ customTranslations \} from './custom-translations'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  //...\par
  i18n: \{\par
    translations: customTranslations,\par
  \},\par
  //...\par
\})\par
Import the shared translation types to use in your Custom Component:\par
\par
// <rootDir>/components/MyComponent.tsx\par
\par
'use client'\par
import type React from 'react'\par
import \{ useTranslation \} from '@payloadcms/ui'\par
\par
import type \{\par
  CustomTranslationsObject,\par
  CustomTranslationsKeys,\par
\} from '../custom-translations'\par
\par
export const MyComponent: React.FC = () => \{\par
  const \{ i18n, t \} = useTranslation<\par
    CustomTranslationsObject,\par
    CustomTranslationsKeys\par
  >() // These generics merge your custom translations with the default client translations\par
\par
  return t('general:myCustomKey')\par
\}\par
Additionally, Payload exposes the t function in various places, for example in labels. Here is how you would type those:\par
\par
// <rootDir>/fields/myField.ts\par
\par
import type \{ TFunction \} from '@payloadcms/translations'\par
import type \{ Field \} from 'payload'\par
\par
import \{ CustomTranslationsKeys \} from '../custom-translations'\par
\par
const field: Field = \{\par
  name: 'myField',\par
  type: 'text',\par
  label: (\{ t: defaultT \}) => \{\par
    const t = defaultT as TFunction<CustomTranslationsKeys>\par
    return t('fields:addLabel')\par
  \},\par
\}\par
}
 