{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 Localization\par
Localization is one of the most important features of a modern CMS. It allows you to manage content in multiple languages, then serve it to your users based on their requested language. This is similar to I18n, but instead of managing translations for your application's interface, you are managing translations for the data itself.\par
\par
With Localization, you can begin to serve personalized content to your users based on their specific language preferences, such as a multilingual website or multi-site application. There are no limits to the number of locales you can add to your Payload project.\par
\par
To configure Localization, use the localization key in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  localization: \{\par
    \par
    // ...\par
  \},\par
\})\par
Config Options\par
Add the localization property to your Payload Config to enable Localization project-wide. You'll need to provide a list of all locales that you'd like to support as well as set a few other options.\par
\par
To configure locales, use the localization.locales property in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  localization: \{\par
    locales: ['en', 'es', 'de'], // required\par
    defaultLocale: 'en', // required\par
  \},\par
\})\par
You can also define locales using full configuration objects:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  collections: [\par
    // collections go here\par
  ],\par
  localization: \{\par
    locales: [\par
      \{\par
        label: 'English',\par
        code: 'en',\par
      \},\par
      \{\par
        label: 'Arabic',\par
        code: 'ar',\par
        // opt-in to setting default text-alignment on Input fields to rtl (right-to-left)\par
        // when current locale is rtl\par
        rtl: true,\par
      \},\par
    ],\par
    defaultLocale: 'en', // required\par
    fallback: true, // defaults to true\par
  \},\par
\})\par
Tip: Localization works very well alongside I18n.\par
\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
locales\par
\par
Array of all the languages that you would like to support. More details\par
\par
defaultLocale\par
\par
Required string that matches one of the locale codes from the array provided. By default, if no locale is specified, documents will be returned in this locale.\par
\par
fallback\par
\par
Boolean enabling "fallback" locale functionality. If a document is requested in a locale, but a field does not have a localized value corresponding to the requested locale, then if this property is enabled, the document will automatically fall back to the fallback locale value. If this property is not enabled, the value will not be populated unless a fallback is explicitly provided in the request. True by default.\par
\par
filterAvailableLocales\par
\par
A function that is called with the array of locales and the req, it should return locales to show in admin UI selector. See more.\par
\par
Locales\par
The locales array is a list of all the languages that you would like to support. This can be strings for each language code, or full configuration objects for more advanced options.\par
\par
The locale codes do not need to be in any specific format. It's up to you to define how to represent your locales. Common patterns are to use two-letter ISO 639 language codes or four-letter language and country codes (ISO 3166\f1\_\f0 1) such as en-US, en-UK, es-MX, etc.\par
\par
Locale Object\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
code *\par
\par
Unique code to identify the language throughout the APIs for locale and fallbackLocale\par
\par
label\par
\par
A string to use for the selector when choosing a language, or an object keyed on the i18n keys for different languages in use.\par
\par
rtl\par
\par
A boolean that when true will make the admin UI display in Right-To-Left.\par
\par
fallbackLocale\par
\par
The code for this language to fallback to when properties of a document are not present. This can be a single locale or array of locales.\par
\par
* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.\par
\par
Filter Available Options\par
In some projects you may want to filter the available locales shown in the admin UI selector. You can do this by providing a filterAvailableLocales function in your Payload Config. This is called on the server side and is passed the array of locales. This means that you can determine what locales are visible in the localizer selection menu at the top of the admin panel. You could do this per user, or implement a function that scopes these to tenants and more. Here is an example using request headers in a multi-tenant application:\par
\par
// ... rest of Payload config\par
localization: \{\par
  defaultLocale: 'en',\par
  locales: ['en', 'es'],\par
  filterAvailableLocales: async (\{ req, locales \}) => \{\par
    if (getTenantFromCookie(req.headers, 'text')) \{\par
      const fullTenant = await req.payload.findByID(\{\par
        id: getTenantFromCookie(req.headers, 'text') as string,\par
        collection: 'tenants',\par
        req,\par
      \})\par
      if (fullTenant && fullTenant.supportedLocales?.length) \{\par
        return locales.filter((locale) => \{\par
          return fullTenant.supportedLocales?.includes(locale.code as 'en' | 'es')\par
        \})\par
      \}\par
    \}\par
    return locales\par
  \},\par
\}\par
Since the filtering happens at the root level of the application and its result is not calculated every time you navigate to a new page, you may want to call router.refresh in a custom component that watches when values that affect the result change. In the example above, you would want to do this when supportedLocales changes on the tenant document.\par
\par
Field Localization\par
Payload Localization works on a field level\f2\emdash not a document level. In addition to configuring the base Payload Config to support Localization, you need to specify each field that you would like to localize.\par
\par
Here is an example of how to enable Localization for a field:\par
\par
\{\par
  name: 'title',\par
  type: 'text',\par
  localized: true,\par
\}\par
With the above configuration, the title field will now be saved in the database as an object of all locales instead of a single string.\par
\par
All field types with a name property support the localized property\emdash even the more complex field types like arrays and blocks.\par
\par
Note: Enabling Localization for field types that support nested fields will automatically create localized "sets" of all fields contained within the field. For example, if you have a page layout using a blocks field type, you have the choice of either localizing the full layout, by enabling Localization on the top-level blocks field, or only certain fields within the layout.\par
\par
Important: When converting an existing field to or from localized: true the data structure in the document will change for this field and so existing data for this field will be lost. Before changing the Localization setting on fields with existing data, you may need to consider a field migration strategy.\par
\par
Status Localization\par
Payload allows you to localize the status field for draft enabled collections and globals. This lets you manage publication status independently for each locale, ensures the admin UI always shows the status for the selected locale, and unpublish content in a single locale.\par
\par
Important: This feature is experimental and currently in beta, you may encounter some limitations or bugs. Please test thoroughly before using in production.\par
\par
Two-Step Setup Required: To enable localized status, you need to set two configuration options:\par
\par
Enable the experimental flag in your main config\par
Enable it for specific collections or globals\par
Step 1: Enable Experimental Flag\par
First, enable the experimental flag in your main Payload config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  experimental: \{\par
    localizeStatus: true, // Required to enable the feature globally\par
  \},\par
  // ... rest of your config\par
\})\par
Step 2: Enable for Collections/Globals\par
Then, enable it for specific collections or globals:\par
\par
import type \{ CollectionConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export const Posts: CollectionConfig = \{\par
  // ...\par
  versions: \{\par
    drafts: \{\par
      localizeStatus: true, // Enable for this specific collection\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\}\par
When enabled, the status field will be stored as an object keyed by locales:\par
\par
status: \{\par
  en: 'published',\par
  es: 'draft',\par
  de: 'published',\par
\}\par
localizeStatus is disabled by default, in which case the status field returns a single string ('draft' or 'published') representing the latest document status across all locales.\par
\par
Retrieving Localized Docs\par
When retrieving documents, you can specify which locale you'd like to receive as well as which fallback locale should be used.\par
\par
REST API\par
REST API locale functionality relies on URL query parameters.\par
\par
?locale=\par
\par
Specify your desired locale by providing the locale query parameter directly in the endpoint URL.\par
\par
?fallback-locale=\par
\par
Specify fallback locale to be used by providing the fallback-locale query parameter. This can be provided as either a valid locale as provided to your base Payload Config, or 'null', 'false', or 'none' to disable falling back.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
fetch('https://localhost:3000/api/pages?locale=es&fallback-locale=none');\par
GraphQL API\par
In the GraphQL API, you can specify locale and fallbackLocale args to all relevant queries and mutations.\par
\par
The locale arg will only accept valid locales, but locales will be formatted automatically as valid GraphQL enum\par
values (dashes or special characters will be converted to underscores, spaces will be removed, etc.). If you are curious\par
to see how locales are auto-formatted, you can use the GraphQL playground.\par
\par
The fallbackLocale arg will accept valid locales, an array of locales, as well as none to disable falling back.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
query \{\par
  Posts(locale: de, fallbackLocale: none) \{\par
    docs \{\par
      title\par
    \}\par
  \}\par
\}\par
In GraphQL, specifying the locale at the top level of a query will automatically apply it throughout all nested relationship fields. You can override this behavior by re-specifying locale arguments in nested related document queries.\par
\par
Local API\par
You can specify locale as well as fallbackLocale within the Local API as well as properties on the options argument. The locale property will accept any valid locale, and the fallbackLocale property will accept any valid locale, array of locales, as well as 'null', 'false', false, and 'none'.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
const posts = await payload.find(\{\par
  collection: 'posts',\par
  locale: 'es',\par
  fallbackLocale: false,\par
\})\par
Tip: The REST and Local APIs can return all Localization data in one request by passing 'all' or '*' as the locale parameter. The response will be structured so that field values come back as the full objects keyed for each locale instead of the single, translated value.\f0\par
}
 