{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 The Payload Config\par
Payload is a config-based, code-first CMS and application framework. The Payload Config is central to everything that Payload does, allowing for deep configuration of your application through a simple and intuitive API. The Payload Config is a fully-typed JavaScript object that can be infinitely extended upon.\par
\par
Everything from your Database choice to the appearance of the Admin Panel is fully controlled through the Payload Config. From here you can define Fields, add Localization, enable Authentication, configure Access Control, and so much more.\par
\par
The Payload Config is a payload.config.ts file typically located in the root of your project:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // Your config goes here\par
\})\par
The Payload Config is strongly typed and ties directly into Payload's TypeScript codebase. This means your IDE (such as VSCode) will provide helpful information like type-ahead suggestions while you write your config.\par
\par
Tip: The location of your Payload Config can be customized. More details.\par
\par
Config Options\par
To author your Payload Config, first determine which Database you'd like to use, then use Collections or Globals to define the schema of your data through Fields.\par
\par
Here is one of the simplest possible Payload configs:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
import \{ mongooseAdapter \} from '@payloadcms/db-mongodb'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  secret: process.env.PAYLOAD_SECRET,\par
  db: mongooseAdapter(\{\par
    url: process.env.DATABASE_URL,\par
  \}),\par
  collections: [\par
    \{\par
      slug: 'pages',\par
      fields: [\par
        \{\par
          name: 'title',\par
          type: 'text',\par
        \},\par
      ],\par
    \},\par
  ],\par
\})\par
Note: For more complex examples, see the Templates and Examples directories in the Payload repository.\par
\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
admin\par
\par
The configuration options for the Admin Panel, including Custom Components, Live Preview, etc. More details.\par
\par
bin\par
\par
Register custom bin scripts for Payload to execute. More Details.\par
\par
editor\par
\par
The Rich Text Editor which will be used by richText fields. More details.\par
\par
db *\par
\par
The Database Adapter which will be used by Payload. More details.\par
\par
serverURL\par
\par
A string used to define the absolute URL of your app. This includes the protocol, for example {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://example.com }}{\fldrslt{https://example.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 . No paths allowed, only protocol, domain and (optionally) port.\par
\par
collections\par
\par
An array of Collections for Payload to manage. More details.\par
\par
compatibility\par
\par
Compatibility flags for earlier versions of Payload. More details.\par
\par
globals\par
\par
An array of Globals for Payload to manage. More details.\par
\par
cors\par
\par
Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that accept incoming requests from given domains. You can also customize the Access-Control-Allow-Headers header. More details.\par
\par
localization\par
\par
Opt-in to translate your content into multiple locales. More details.\par
\par
logger\par
\par
Logger options, logger options with a destination stream, or an instantiated logger instance. More details.\par
\par
loggingLevels\par
\par
An object to override the level to use in the logger for Payload's errors.\par
\par
graphQL\par
\par
Manage GraphQL-specific functionality, including custom queries and mutations, query complexity limits, etc. More details.\par
\par
cookiePrefix\par
\par
A string that will be prefixed to all cookies that Payload sets.\par
\par
csrf\par
\par
A whitelist array of URLs to allow Payload to accept cookies from. More details.\par
\par
defaultDepth\par
\par
If a user does not specify depth while requesting a resource, this depth will be used. More details.\par
\par
defaultMaxTextLength\par
\par
The maximum allowed string length to be permitted application-wide. Helps to prevent malicious public document creation.\par
\par
folders\par
\par
An optional object to configure global folder settings. More details.\par
\par
queryPresets\par
\par
An object that to configure Collection Query Presets. More details.\par
\par
maxDepth\par
\par
The maximum allowed depth to be permitted application-wide. This setting helps prevent against malicious queries. Defaults to 10. More details.\par
\par
indexSortableFields\par
\par
Automatically index all sortable top-level fields in the database to improve sort performance and add database compatibility for Azure Cosmos and similar.\par
\par
upload\par
\par
Base Payload upload configuration. More details.\par
\par
routes\par
\par
Control the routing structure that Payload binds itself to. More details.\par
\par
email\par
\par
Configure the Email Adapter for Payload to use. More details.\par
\par
onInit\par
\par
A function that is called immediately following startup that receives the Payload instance as its only argument.\par
\par
debug\par
\par
Enable to expose more detailed error information.\par
\par
telemetry\par
\par
Disable Payload telemetry by passing false. More details.\par
\par
hooks\par
\par
An array of Root Hooks. More details.\par
\par
plugins\par
\par
An array of Plugins. More details.\par
\par
endpoints\par
\par
An array of Custom Endpoints added to the Payload router. More details.\par
\par
custom\par
\par
Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins).\par
\par
i18n\par
\par
Internationalization configuration. Pass all i18n languages you'd like the admin UI to support. Defaults to English-only. More details.\par
\par
secret *\par
\par
A secure, unguessable string that Payload will use for any encryption workflows - for example, password salt / hashing.\par
\par
sharp\par
\par
If you would like Payload to offer cropping, focal point selection, and automatic media resizing, install and pass the Sharp module to the config here.\par
\par
typescript\par
\par
Configure TypeScript settings here. More details.\par
\par
* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.\par
\par
Note: Some properties are removed from the client-side bundle. More details.\par
\par
TypeScript Config\par
Payload exposes a variety of TypeScript settings that you can leverage. These settings are used to auto-generate TypeScript interfaces for your Collections and Globals, and to ensure that Payload uses your Generated Types for all Local API methods.\par
\par
To customize the TypeScript settings, use the typescript property in your Payload Config:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  typescript: \{\par
    // ...\par
  \},\par
\})\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
autoGenerate\par
\par
By default, Payload will auto-generate TypeScript interfaces for all collections and globals that your config defines. Opt out by setting typescript.autoGenerate: false. More details.\par
\par
declare\par
\par
By default, Payload adds a declare block to your generated types, which makes sure that Payload uses your generated types for all Local API methods. Opt out by setting typescript.declare: false.\par
\par
outputFile\par
\par
Control the output path and filename of Payload's auto-generated types by defining the typescript.outputFile property to a full, absolute path.\par
\par
strictDraftTypes\par
\par
Enable strict type safety for draft mode. When enabled: (1) Query operations (find, findByID) with draft: true will type required fields as optional, since validation is skipped for drafts. (2) The draft property is forbidden for collections without drafts in create operations. (3) Create operations enforce proper data requirements via discriminated unions. Defaults to false. This will become the default behavior in v4.0.\par
\par
Config Location\par
For Payload command-line scripts, we need to be able to locate your Payload Config. We'll check a variety of locations for the presence of payload.config.ts by default, including:\par
\par
The root current working directory\par
The compilerOptions in your `tsconfig`*\par
The dist directory*\par
* Config location detection is different between development and production environments. See below for more details.\par
\par
Important: Ensure your tsconfig.json is properly configured for Payload to auto-detect your config location. If it does not exist, or does not specify the proper compilerOptions, Payload will default to the current working directory.\par
\par
Development Mode\par
\par
In development mode, if the configuration file is not found at the root, Payload will attempt to read your tsconfig.json, and attempt to find the config file specified in the rootDir:\par
\par
\{\par
  // ...\par
  "compilerOptions": \{\par
    "rootDir": "src"\par
  \}\par
\}\par
Production Mode\par
\par
In production mode, Payload will first attempt to find the config file in the outDir of your tsconfig.json, and if not found, will fallback to the rootDir directory:\par
\par
\{\par
  // ...\par
  "compilerOptions": \{\par
    "outDir": "dist",\par
    "rootDir": "src"\par
  \}\par
\}\par
If none was in either location, Payload will finally check the dist directory.\par
\par
Customizing the Config Location\par
In addition to the above automated detection, you can specify your own location for the Payload Config. This can be useful in situations where your config is not in a standard location, or you wish to switch between multiple configurations. To do this, Payload exposes an Environment Variable to bypass all automatic config detection.\par
\par
To use a custom config location, set the PAYLOAD_CONFIG_PATH environment variable:\par
\par
\{\par
  "scripts": \{\par
    "payload": "PAYLOAD_CONFIG_PATH=/path/to/custom-config.ts payload"\par
  \}\par
\}\par
Tip: PAYLOAD_CONFIG_PATH can be either an absolute path, or path relative to your current working directory.\par
\par
Telemetry\par
Payload collects completely anonymous telemetry data about general usage. This data is super important to us and helps us accurately understand how we're growing and what we can do to build the software into everything that it can possibly be. The telemetry that we collect also help us demonstrate our growth in an accurate manner, which helps us as we seek investment to build and scale our team. If we can accurately demonstrate our growth, we can more effectively continue to support Payload as free and open-source software. To opt out of telemetry, you can pass telemetry: false within your Payload Config.\par
\par
For more information about what we track, take a look at our privacy policy.\par
\par
Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)\par
Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) can be configured with either a whitelist array of URLS to allow CORS requests from, a wildcard string (*) to accept incoming requests from any domain, or an object with the following properties:\par
\par
Option\par
\par
Description\par
\par
origins\par
\par
Either a whitelist array of URLS to allow CORS requests from, or a wildcard string ('*') to accept incoming requests from any domain.\par
\par
headers\par
\par
A list of allowed headers that will be appended in Access-Control-Allow-Headers.\par
\par
Here's an example showing how to allow incoming requests from any domain:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  cors: '*',\par
\})\par
Here's an example showing how to append a new header (x-custom-header) in Access-Control-Allow-Headers:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  // ...\par
  cors: \{\par
    origins: ['{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://localhost:3000 }}{\fldrslt{http://localhost:3000\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 '],\par
    headers: ['x-custom-header'],\par
  \},\par
\})\par
TypeScript\par
You can import types from Payload to help make writing your config easier and type-safe. There are two main types that represent the Payload Config, Config and SanitizedConfig.\par
\par
The Config type represents a raw Payload Config in its full form. Only the bare minimum properties are marked as required. The SanitizedConfig type represents a Payload Config after it has been fully sanitized. Generally, this is only used internally by Payload.\par
\par
import type \{ Config, SanitizedConfig \} from 'payload'\par
Server vs. Client\par
The Payload Config only lives on the server and is not allowed to contain any client-side code. That way, you can load up the Payload Config in any server environment or standalone script, without having to use Bundlers or Node.js loaders to handle importing client-only modules (e.g. scss files or React Components) without any errors.\par
\par
Behind the curtains, the Next.js-based Admin Panel generates a ClientConfig, which strips away any server-only code and enriches the config with React Components.\par
\par
Compatibility flags\par
The Payload Config can accept compatibility flags for running the newest versions but with older databases. You should only use these flags if you need to, and should confirm that you need to prior to enabling these flags.\par
\par
allowLocalizedWithinLocalized\par
\par
Payload localization works on a field-by-field basis. As you can nest fields within other fields, you could potentially nest a localized field within a localized field\f1\emdash but this would be redundant and unnecessary. There would be no reason to define a localized field within a localized parent field, given that the entire data structure from the parent field onward would be localized.\par
\par
By default, Payload will remove the localized: true property from sub-fields if a parent field is localized. Set this compatibility flag to true only if you have an existing Payload MongoDB database from pre-3.0, and you have nested localized fields that you would like to maintain without migrating.\par
\par
Logger\par
Payload uses Pino as its logger. By default, Payload logs pretty-printed output to stdout. You can customise this through the logger option in your config.\par
\par
The logger option accepts one of three forms:\par
\par
1. Logger options with an optional destination stream\par
Pass a \{ options, destination? \} object to configure the logger. options accepts standard Pino logger options such as level and name. An optional destination stream can be supplied as a second argument.\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  logger: \{\par
    options: \{\par
      level: 'debug',\par
    \},\par
  \},\par
\})\par
To write logs to a file, pass a destination stream:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
import \{ pino \} from 'pino'\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  logger: \{\par
    options: \{ level: 'info' \},\par
    destination: pino.destination('/var/log/payload.log'),\par
  \},\par
\})\par
Compatibility note: The transport property of Pino's LoggerOptions may fail with "unable to determine transport target" in some environments. Pino transports spawn a worker thread with their own module resolution, which can break when modules are bundled or the project uses ESM. If you encounter this error, use a pre-instantiated logger instead (see below).\par
\par
2. Pre-instantiated logger\par
Pass a fully configured Pino logger instance. This is the recommended approach when you need custom transports, formatters, or pino-pretty in development:\par
\par
import \{ buildConfig \} from 'payload'\par
import \{ pino \} from 'pino'\par
import pinoPretty from 'pino-pretty'\par
\par
const logger = pino(\{ level: 'debug' \}, pinoPretty(\{ colorize: true \}))\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  logger,\par
\})\par
3. Disabling logging\par
Set the DISABLE_LOGGING environment variable to 'true' to suppress all log output:\par
\par
DISABLE_LOGGING=true node server.js\par
Custom bin scripts\par
Using the bin configuration property, you can inject your own scripts to npx payload. Example for pnpm payload seed:\par
\par
Step 1: create seed.ts file in the same folder with payload.config.ts with:\par
\par
import type \{ SanitizedConfig \} from 'payload'\par
\par
import payload from 'payload'\par
\par
// Script must define a "script" function export that accepts the sanitized config\par
export const script = async (config: SanitizedConfig) => \{\par
  await payload.init(\{ config \})\par
  await payload.create(\{\par
    collection: 'pages',\par
    data: \{ title: 'my title' \},\par
  \})\par
  payload.logger.info('Successfully seeded!')\par
  process.exit(0)\par
\}\par
Step 2: add the seed script to bin:\par
\par
export default buildConfig(\{\par
  bin: [\par
    \{\par
      scriptPath: path.resolve(dirname, 'seed.ts'),\par
      key: 'seed',\par
    \},\par
  ],\par
\})\par
Now you can run the command using:\par
\par
pnpm payload seed\par
Running bin scripts on a schedule\par
Every bin script supports being run on a schedule using cron syntax. Simply pass the --cron flag followed by the cron expression when running the script. Example:\par
\par
pnpm payload run ./myScript.ts --cron "0 * * * *"\par
This will use the run bin script to execute the specified script on the defined schedule.\f0\par
}
 