{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 ---\par
title: Components\par
description: Here you can find all the components available in the library. We are working on adding more components.\par
---\par
\par
- [Accordion](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/accordion): A vertically stacked set of interactive headings that each reveal a section of content.\par
- [Alert](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/alert): Displays a callout for user attention.\par
- [Alert Dialog](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/alert-dialog): A modal dialog that interrupts the user with important content and expects a response.\par
- [Aspect Ratio](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/aspect-ratio): Displays content within a desired ratio.\par
- [Avatar](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/avatar): An image element with a fallback for representing the user.\par
- [Badge](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/badge): Displays a badge or a component that looks like a badge.\par
- [Breadcrumb](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/breadcrumb): Displays the path to the current resource using a hierarchy of links.\par
- [Button](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/button): Displays a button or a component that looks like a button.\par
- [Button Group](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/button-group): A container that groups related buttons together with consistent styling.\par
- [Calendar](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/calendar): A calendar component that allows users to select a date or a range of dates.\par
- [Card](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/card): Displays a card with header, content, and footer.\par
- [Carousel](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/carousel): A carousel with motion and swipe built using Embla.\par
- [Chart](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/chart): Beautiful charts. Built using Recharts. Copy and paste into your apps.\par
- [Checkbox](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/checkbox): A control that allows the user to toggle between checked and not checked.\par
- [Collapsible](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/collapsible): An interactive component which expands/collapses a panel.\par
- [Combobox](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/combobox): Autocomplete input with a list of suggestions.\par
- [Command](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/command): Command menu for search and quick actions.\par
- [Context Menu](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/context-menu): Displays a menu of actions triggered by a right click.\par
- [Data Table](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/data-table): Powerful table and datagrids built using TanStack Table.\par
- [Date Picker](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/date-picker): A date picker component with range and presets.\par
- [Dialog](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/dialog): A window overlaid on either the primary window or another dialog window, rendering the content underneath inert.\par
- [Direction](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/direction): A provider component that sets the text direction for your application.\par
- [Drawer](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/drawer): A drawer component for React.\par
- [Dropdown Menu](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/dropdown-menu): Displays a menu to the user \f1\emdash  such as a set of actions or functions \emdash  triggered by a button.\par
- [Empty](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/empty): Use the Empty component to display an empty state.\par
- [Field](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/field): Combine labels, controls, and help text to compose accessible form fields and grouped inputs.\par
- [Hover Card](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/hover-card): For sighted users to preview content available behind a link.\par
- [Input](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/input): A text input component for forms and user data entry with built-in styling and accessibility features.\par
- [Input Group](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/input-group): Add addons, buttons, and helper content to inputs.\par
- [Input OTP](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/input-otp): Accessible one-time password component with copy-paste functionality.\par
- [Item](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/item): A versatile component for displaying content with media, title, description, and actions.\par
- [Kbd](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/kbd): Used to display textual user input from keyboard.\par
- [Label](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/label): Renders an accessible label associated with controls.\par
- [Menubar](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/menubar): A visually persistent menu common in desktop applications that provides quick access to a consistent set of commands.\par
- [Native Select](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/native-select): A styled native HTML select element with consistent design system integration.\par
- [Navigation Menu](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/navigation-menu): A collection of links for navigating websites.\par
- [Pagination](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/pagination): Pagination with page navigation, next and previous links.\par
- [Popover](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/popover): Displays rich content in a portal, triggered by a button.\par
- [Progress](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/progress): Displays an indicator showing the completion progress of a task, typically displayed as a progress bar.\par
- [Radio Group](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/radio-group): A set of checkable buttons\emdash known as radio buttons\emdash where no more than one of the buttons can be checked at a time.\par
- [Resizable](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/resizable): Accessible resizable panel groups and layouts with keyboard support.\par
- [Scroll Area](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/scroll-area): Augments native scroll functionality for custom, cross-browser styling.\par
- [Select](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/select): Displays a list of options for the user to pick from\emdash triggered by a button.\par
- [Separator](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/separator): Visually or semantically separates content.\par
- [Sheet](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/sheet): Extends the Dialog component to display content that complements the main content of the screen.\par
- [Sidebar](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/sidebar): A composable, themeable and customizable sidebar component.\par
- [Skeleton](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/skeleton): Use to show a placeholder while content is loading.\par
- [Slider](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/slider): An input where the user selects a value from within a given range.\par
- [Sonner](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/sonner): An opinionated toast component for React.\par
- [Spinner](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/spinner): An indicator that can be used to show a loading state.\par
- [Switch](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/switch): A control that allows the user to toggle between checked and not checked.\par
- [Table](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/table): A responsive table component.\par
- [Tabs](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/tabs): A set of layered sections of content\emdash known as tab panels\emdash that are displayed one at a time.\par
- [Textarea](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/textarea): Displays a form textarea or a component that looks like a textarea.\par
- [Toast](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/toast): A succinct message that is displayed temporarily.\par
- [Toggle](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/toggle): A two-state button that can be either on or off.\par
- [Toggle Group](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/toggle-group): A set of two-state buttons that can be toggled on or off.\par
- [Tooltip](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/tooltip): A popup that displays information related to an element when the element receives keyboard focus or the mouse hovers over it.\par
- [Typography](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/typography): Styles for headings, paragraphs, lists, etc.\par
\par
---\par
\par
Can't find what you need? Try the [registry directory](/docs/directory) for community-maintained components.\f0\par
}
 